---
layout: post
title:  "Magnetic tornadoes behave like water ice"
category: "blog"
post_image: "/assets/images/magnetic_tornadoes.png"  # ideally 1400*933 or 900*600 ar another 3:2 ratio
author: Johanna K. Jochum  # default is Johanna K. Jochum
tags: [sciencemag, quantum computing]  
# date is in the filename!!
---


Researchers from the MLZ in Munich found that the mysterious magnetic structures called “Skyrmions” crystallize in a similar manner to water ice. 

Skyrmions are magnetic vortices that can form a regular sixfold pattern, called a Skyrmion lattice, and have the potential to become the building blocks for new devices used in unconventional computing. 

A Skyrmion can extend over several dozens of nanometers (a nanometer isabout 10000 times smaller than a diameter of human hair) and consists of many magnetic spins that form a rotating vortex reaching throughout the material, a bit like a magnetic tornado

The existence of skyrmions has been predicted decades ago, however they have only recently been discovered in manganese silicide (MnSi), a material that hosts many different types of magnetic phenomena. These phenomena range from ferromagnetism (e.g. your fridge magnet) where spins align parallel to each other to complicated chiral structures where spins form helices and cones. 

Researchers from the MLZ in Munich used neutron scattering to investigate how exactly Skyrmions form in MnSi. 
Neutrons are subatomic particles that can be found in the core of an atom together with protons. Neutrons do not have any electrical charge. but they do have a magnetic spin. With this spin, they are an excellent probe to investigate other spin structures. 

To actually find Skyrmions in MnSi, the material needs to be cooled down to -245°C and placed inside a small magnetic field. 

When researchers slowly cooled the material down to this region where Skyrmions can be found, they first observed fluctuating Skyrmion textures, before a nice regular Skyrmion lattice was formed. 

This is very similar to what happens when water freezes:
When you put water in your freezer, it doesn’t suddenly turn to ice once it hits zero degrees. First, small ice crystals form, which immediately melt again because it’s not quite cold enough yet. The colder it gets, the longer the crystals stick around before melting again, gradually forming clusters, until the entire water is finally frozen.



(Based on: Weak crystallization of fluctuating Skyrmion textures in MnSi, J. Kindervater et al., Phys. Rev. X 9, 041059 (2019), https://journals.aps.org/prx/pdf/10.1103/PhysRevX.9.041059)


